wow a giant roiling mountain of a
thunder cloud is moving towards you
it's completely black and goes in stark
contrast with a bright blue sky right
above and behind you
you see a blinding flash and in a few
seconds
a deafening whip-like crack of thunder
and then
the rain starts gushing down from the
heavens
the wind rises you see treetops bending
low towards the ground some miles away
and getting closer by the second you
freeze in place
realizing you can't escape anyway but
when the rain
almost reaches you its movement suddenly
stops
just a few feet before you there's a
veritable flood
but right where you stand it's dry and
even sunny
and after a short while the angry
thunder cloud spills its last drops
and disperses seeing the edge of rain is
a rare thing
but not impossible the rain has to be
really powerful so that the wind
couldn't diverge the drops from their
vertical path
if the rain is light you'll only be able
to see its edges from far away
it looks like a shimmering gray haze
going all the way from the sky to the
ground
now the rain's passed but the wind is
still blowing and rising ever stronger
you see leaves flying around in a
circular pattern
and realize a tornado is about to start
you run as fast and far away as you can
climb some hill and only then stop and
turn around
no tornado yet but the cloud that's
hanging up there
looks menacing another flash and a whip
crap
the lightning has struck a lone tree
near where you just stood
it caught on fire and there's a column
of flames
rising to the sky still no rain
and the pillar becomes taller and taller
you've heard of such a thing but never
seen it a fire tornado
this phenomenon occurs when the wind is
caught in a circle close to the ground
because of the difference in air
pressure such many tornadoes are usually
easy to notice small rubble dust sand
and leaves rise into the air and start
flying in rapid circles
but then if there's a source of fire
nearby
the funnel can catch it and blow it
stronger like bellows
the flames go round and round reaching
even higher
and eventually creating a swirling
blazing tower
luckily fire tornadoes are short-lived
and don't normally cause much damage
if that wasn't enough you feel some
rumbling from below
no it's not your tummy it's low and
ominous you look up and see strange
lights
hanging above the ground they look like
shimmering balls of light
hovering high up in the sky your throat
goes dry and you
gulp that's what they call the
earthquake lights
this phenomenon is poorly understood but
witnesses say
they've seen it in different shapes and
sizes it could be in the form of light
balls
sheet lightning streamers and steady
glow in the sky
soon after a strong earthquake follows
scientists can't explain why those
lights appear and they don't always do
either
some believe there's a reaction of
underground gases
released into the atmosphere sure enough
an earthquake begins but lucky you it's
not as strong as you expected
the ground is shaking but you even
managed to keep your balance
it stops as abruptly as it began and you
walk home
later that night you look out the window
and see something incredible
a rainbow but it's dark already
and the moon is shining in the clear
night skies
ah wait that's exactly what it is
a moonbow also called a lunar rainbow
this event occurs extremely rarely it's
similar to a regular rainbow in
everything
except that it appears on a clear moony
night after a rain shower
thankful for such a spectacle you go to
sleep
next morning you look out the window
again and suddenly
the sun is all but blocked and it seems
to be night again
you hear distant rustling and some kind
of crying
puzzled you look up and you can't
believe your eyes
there are thousands upon thousands of
birds in the sky
so many that they block all sunlight
this is called sort saw or black sun in
danish
very fitting normally it only happens in
denmark
hence the name where numerous migratory
star links take to the air at the same
time
to look for a place to stay for the
winter there are so
many of them that they literally make
the sky go black
for a few moments so what are they doing
where you are
well that's a good question okay
you're now magically transported to
antarctica
we're in an imaginary universe so
anything can happen
of course you're properly dressed in
warm and cozy clothes
you look around in bewilderment and
realize you've been transported to the
slopes of mount erebus
one of many volcanoes of the icy
continent
right now it's slowly cooking gas
seeping out from its top and fissures on
the sides
what draws your attention though are
snowy pillars all around you
these are known as snow chimneys they
form
thanks to the boiling magma underneath
it occasionally spews up hot gas toward
the surface
but the chill outside stops the hot
stuff as a result
fumaroles are formed the hot gas freezes
over as soon as it hits the air
creating peculiar ice statues they let
out
thin strands of smoke almost all the
time and grow
as the gas tries to escape from the
neither well
that's enough of the freezing cold and
volcanoes time to go to
milder climbs whoosh and you're in los
angeles
look up almost right above you there's a
beautiful rainbow cascade of clouds
these are called a fire rainbow or
circum horizontal ark
again it's a rare thing but here in la
it's much more likely to occur than say
in london fire rainbows only appear when
the conditions are right
it's close to the equator the weather is
clear there are feather-like clouds in
the sky
and the sun is higher than 58 degrees
above the horizon
such clouds are made of ice crystals and
when the sun's rays hit
them the particles refract the light and
create a rainbow
wow oops jumping to another place again
this time you find yourself in indonesia
overlooking another volcano
its name is kawaii jan and it's the
world's most beautiful
fire mountain you see it slowly erupting
but the lava lazily flowing out of its
ma
isn't red it's blue inside the kawaii
zhen
there's much more sulfuric gas than in
any other volcano
when the mountain erupts the gas goes
out under extreme pressure
as soon as it hits the open air it
triggers a chemical reaction which turns
the fire blue
ever seen a gas stove burning here the
principle is basically the same
and you're in the bitter cold of the
arctic ah come on
still as soon as you see the frozen
ocean you forget all about the cold
there are frost flowers blooming on the
surface
marvelous crystals of fragile ice seem
to grow from the thin
sheet of the frozen sea such flowers
only occur near the shore
or on lakes when the difference in
temperatures above and on the water line
is drastic
at least 27 degrees is required when the
warmer ice on the surface
meets the colder air above it water
vapor appears
and freezes rapidly this creates brittle
but
beautiful structures on the surface
which can even grow taller with time
your next destination is not much warmer
still the arctic circle
but siberia now strangely at first you
see nothing around
but the endless green valley and a low
hill nearby
but then you notice that the ground is
trembling
an earthquake again no you see the hill
shaking
as if it were about to burst and then it
actually bursts an ear splitting boom
takes your hearing away for a few
seconds
and you see huge boulders flying in
every direction like meteorites
when you return your gaze to the ground
there's no hill before
you instead there's a huge wide and deep
crater you've become witness to a
permafrost explosion
a new and poorly explored phenomenon
the main theory is that low mounds
sometimes form in the frozen plains of
siberia
pushed upwards by expanding natural gas
hidden underneath
at some point this gas can explode
leading to a powerful burst
and the mound pops like a water bubble a
massive extremely dangerous pop
look out there's a stray boulder flying
right at you
you've been transported right on time
and hey you're back home
the thunderstorm is over and whoa what
are those clouds
they look extremely sinister well don't
worry
they're called mammatus clouds and
they're perfectly safe
they tend to appear before or after a
severe storm or a hurricane
normally clouds form thanks to warmer
air going up
but these ones form because of cooler
air sinking down
it creates pockets made of ice and water
which droop down in distinct lobes
they don't hold on for too long though
15 minutes at the most
and then they're gone you look at the
site shake your head
and go home that's a bit too much for
one day